Hello wonderful people in this video we're going to make a game of a scream.
We need the game to actually be able to end whether we win or lose.
So what needs to happen.
First thing we need to do is create a new scene called Game Over.
Then we need a way to get to that scene and a way to get back.
So we need to give the player a chance to restart right whether they win or lose.
Let's begin by making a new scene that's going to be game over.
We need the parent node for this.
Now there's a lot of things we can't use but I'm going to use control which is the base note for any
kind of you are.
That's why it's green not blue or red.
Remember blues for 2D Red is for 3-d.
Green is for the user interface.
It's there's a lot of really cool features with this and we'll explore this in more detail when we make
the actual UI for the game.
For now let's create a control note.
I'm going to rename this game over.
There it is.
Let's click on this layout button.
What this is going to do is say okay I want you to arrange yourself based on the screen size of the
four press full rectangle.
You'll see it's now the size of the screen.
Okay.
What do we want here in the background.
Well we have a couple of options.
We call it if we're going to control node you know want to go type in and we could use a colour rectangle
just a rectangle that we can pick a colourful.
So let's say I want.
It's nice.
What does that terracotta nice purposely colour whatever.
And that will work.
So you could use this colour rectangle make it black or grey or teal or whatever.
I'm going to delete this node and create a new one.
There's going to be a texture rectangle.
And the texture I'm going to pick is the background.
Now even if I see a full rectangle lay up it's not going to go small in this size unless I press expand
the Expand checkbox a little misleading it doesn't mean just letting it go.
It also means let's get small.
Keep in mind by the way that these layout controls like full rectangle that's referring to how big it
is compared to the parent not to the view screen.
It just so happens that in this case we're also looking at a view screen because that's the size of
the parent.
And now press full rectangle it's actually the size of the view screen.
This is really cool because let's save the scene in scenes.
Game over scene.
Fantastic.
When I press run scene or play scene as opposed to play game I'm just going to play this game over scene.
And here we have a nice bright blue background that doesn't do anything but on every size it it's sizing
all the elements in control.
That's handy because it means that I don't have to worry about different screen sizes.
And and trying to align all the elements.
I just get it right the first time it should work for everything.
Okay what do we want next.
I want a big thing in the middle that says game over.
I want it in the middle.
That's my first clue.
So in the middle I'm going to create a new control.
I could just type it in under a container I want centre container keeps children controls centred.
Perfect.
Let's make you full rectangle.
So it now knows this is the size I have to work with.
Keep whatever's in you in the centre and I'm not gonna rename that but I am going to give it a child
that child is going to be a text label soul label not Texas label just label.
It's confusing isn't it rich text label and label.
So what's this label going to be.
Well right now it's not going to be anything because the minimum size is wrong.
Let's change the minimum size before we type anything under rectangle or rect minimum size let's say
400 x y 200 Y.
So that is the smallest This element can get.
And I'm going to write the words game over and then they are in tiny tiny white letters that's no use
to anybody.
So we'll go down to custom colours and black do black for now.
You can pick whatever colour you like you want.
Nice.
What is this nice.
Whatever shade of pink that is.
I don't think it looks terrible on a big black
custom font.
We've done this before in Luni lips bless refresh our memory.
I'm going to create a new dynamic font.
Click on the font.
Click font from the dynamic font menu there's a lot of clicking this is apparently a change of three
point one.
And we've provided a font for you so if you go back to them the root menu Torres you'll see fonts that
just drag candles over there.
Can't see anything.
Why.
Because size has been set to zero.
What's a good size 50.
OK.
Let's go with the 180 has 180 180 feels good.
So make a brand new button.
And to give it simple I'm going to go with a texture button.
There is some very cool stuff you do with non texture buttons but that's kind of all themes are going
to come back to themes later in the course.
So for now it's like a text button and we have a text so we can use and hard let's use the little bronze
Bunny I come that's going to be our lives.
That feels sensible over to normal you go normal texture is a bunny.
Let's put you down here.
It looks like a good place.
I'm going to change the size of this thing so right now the size is 52 by 71.
Let's double that so 52 to 140 and seventy one is our hundred and forty two.
I can maths.
OK.
I've change the size is not expanding so let's expand you.
Perfect.
Now that is a label as make a label
and the labels are going to say try again for now.
Let's give it colours and fonts and make you black custom font.
OK.
I can copy the font from here and put it into this label.
But if I do that they're both going to be the same size and for change the size in one.
It'll change them in.
But I want to see a different size.
This is a new custom dynamic font back into fonts strike candles not to spacing into font because that's
what it is.
And let's give you a size of one 20.
Do you pick your font of 80.
Yes.
Much more like it.
Let's move monita over here and move this over here.
OK.
That's looking good.
We now have a game over.
Try again.
We can move this to where we need it could be here could be done in the corner.
Find a place you're comfortable with.
And with that let's actually make a function.
I first want to save this check.
This looks good.
There we go.
The button currently not doing anything.
Can we go back to the root menu because of the need to navigate in a minute.
First thing I need to do is figure out where Bunny is so that's going to be position nice and easy.
No we to figure out what the end of the level is.
I'm just going to get a camera too deep and look what we put the limit.
I put my bottom three thousand.
Well cameras not going to be on there.
If the play goes beyond the end of the game.
Nice and easy.
Let's make an export variable a variable that's going to shop in the inspector and I won't call this
world all in it.
Equals 3000.
Save that.
And the reason I do this is now I can change it here.
Right so if I don't like it I can change that later.
We could get rid of this and just move it into the function for now.
Leverage is so fall this big brand if condition if position dot Y.
Okay so if my vertical position is greater than the world limit
so position not why is greater than if my downward position is greater than the world limit.
Remember positive y is down.
I get the wrong so many times.
What do we need to do.
We need to make this call a function call a function called End Game.
Let's go into a big screen mode no a function and game.
OK we did this a lunar eclipse right so get tree dot change seen what seemed to need to change too.
Well if we go to our scenes folder and right click on game over we can do Cobie path.
Now we're going to need a string.
You can see that if I press control and do change screen change scene string path so what that means
is it needs to be in quotes.
This one like pastes in the reference and that should work.
Let's find out this Pressplay.
Here is Bonnie.
Bonnie is cute.
Bonnie will fall.
Game over.
Awesome.
Now we need to do is make sure that we don't just get here.
We make this button do something.
So that's my challenge for you.
I would like you to let the play a try again then have the try again button load level 1.
Pause the video give it a shot.
When you come back I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
I'm going to put a new script in game over and what I want to do is send a signal from the texture button.
Game over.
So first this needs a script.
You cannot connect to a node that has no script.
So new script let's put this in the right place.
This is scenes I don't want in scenes I want his scripts are going to call it game over for now and
create the script.
Alright now let's connect the signal on Prest is going to connect to that.
It can take on texture Prest great.
I don't need a radio function.
I do need extends control you can't get rid of that.
I guess what's going to happen here gets docked.
Tre Whoops no get under score tree.
So get tree dot change scene the same exact thing which you did.
What's my string.
I'm going to go to level one.
Copy path and paste that in and that should be it.
That should be all that needs to happen so as press play and check that.
OK Bonnie form bunny fall game over.
Try again.
And there we are.
And we're done.
Which brings us to the end of this video.
In this video we've created a game over screen and started looking at control notes and then we refreshed
ourselves on how to use signals and basic things like fonts and so on.
And before we go why not share the game of the screen you made so take a screen shot of it and show
the community.
I'd love to see it.
So we now have an end game state.
Great work and I'll see you in the next video.